#+TITLE: In how many ways can you change one dollar
From Polya, G. “On Picture-Writing.” The American Mathematical
Monthly, vol. 63, no. 10, 1956, pp. 689–697. JSTOR, JSTOR,
www.jstor.org/stable/2309555.

Let us generalize the proposed question.  Let $P_{n}$ denote the
number of ways of paying the amount of $n$ cents with five kinds of
coins: cents, nickels, dimes, quarters and half-dollars.  The "way of
paying" is determined if, and only if, it is known how many coins of
each kind are used.  Thus, $P_{4}=1, P_{5}=2, P_{10} = 4$.  It is
appropriate to set $P_{0}=1$.  The problem stated at the outset
requires us to compute $P_{100}$.  More generally, we wish to
understand the nature of $P_{n}$ and eventually devise a procedure
for computing $P_{n}$.

It may help to visiualize the various possibilities.  We may use no
cent, or just 1 cent, or 2 cents, or 3 cents, or ...  These
alternatives are schematically pictured in the first line of Figure 1;
[fn::A photo of actual coins would be more efffective here but too
clumsy in the following figures.] "no cent" is represened by a square
which may remind us of an empty desk.  The second line pictures the
alternatives: using no nickel, 1 nickel, 2 nickels, ... The following
three lines represent in the same way the possibilities regarding
dimes, quarters and half-dollars.  We have to choose one picture from
the first line, then one picture from the second line and so on,
choosing just one picture from each line; combining (juxtaposing) the
five pictures so selected, we obtain a manner of paying.  Thus, Figure
1 exhibits directly the alternatives regarding each kind of coin and,
indirectly, all manners of paying we are concerned with.

#+CAPTION: A conmplete survey of alternatives.
#+NAME:   fig1
[[./fig1.png]]

#+CAPTION: Genesis of the figurative series
#+NAME: fig2
[[./fig2.png]]

The main discovery consists in observing that, in fact we combine the
picutres in Figure 1 according to certain rules in algebra: if we
conceive each line of Figure 1 as the /sum/ of pictures contained in
it and we consider the /product/ of these five (infinite) sums, in
short, if we pass from Figure 1 to Figure 2, and we develop the
product, the terms of this development will represent the various
manners of paying we are concerned with.  The one term of the product
exhibited in the last line of Figure 2 as an example represents one
manner of paying one dollar (putting down no cents, three nickels, one
dime, one quarter and one half-dollar).  The sum of all such terms is
an infinite series of pictures; each picture exhibits one manner of
paying, different terms represent different manners of paying, and the
whole series of pictures, appropriately called the /figurate series/,
displays all manners of paying that we have have to consider when we
wish to compute the numbers $P_{n}$.

Yet this way of conceiving Figure 2 raises various difficulties.
First, there is a theoretical difficulty: in which sense can we add
and multiply pictures?  Then, there is a practical difficulty: how can
we pick out conveniently from the whole figurate series the terms
counted by $P_{n}$, that is, those cases in which the sum paid amounts
to just $n$ cents?
